---
layout: post
title:  "感谢HN：您帮助拯救了一家公司，现在这家公司帮助成千上万的人谋生。"
author: callmevlad
description: 文章讲述了Webflow创始人团队在创业初期面临重重困难，包括资金短缺、产品开发挑战和家庭成员的健康问题。他们在几乎绝望的情况下，通过在 Hacker News 上发布关于 Webflow 的帖子获得了意外的成功，这为他们带来了用户关注、投资机会和信心，最终使 Webflow 成长为一家拥有数百万用户和数万客户的知名公司。创始人对 Hacker News 社区表示了深深的感激，认为如果没有那次帖子的成功，Webflow 可能就不会存在，成千上万的人也无法以这种方式构建网络。
categories: [ Hacker News ]
image: https://picsum.photos/seed/1610728607/750/500
tags: [angel investor]
---

作者: callmevlad | 发布日期: 2021-01-15 | 评分: 1364 | 评论数: 57

**摘要：**

文章讲述了Webflow创始人团队在创业初期面临重重困难，包括资金短缺、产品开发挑战和家庭成员的健康问题。他们在几乎绝望的情况下，通过在 Hacker News 上发布关于 Webflow 的帖子获得了意外的成功，这为他们带来了用户关注、投资机会和信心，最终使 Webflow 成长为一家拥有数百万用户和数万客户的知名公司。创始人对 Hacker News 社区表示了深深的感激，认为如果没有那次帖子的成功，Webflow 可能就不会存在，成千上万的人也无法以这种方式构建网络。

Dear HN,I’m feeling a deep sense of gratitude this morning, and wanted to share it with you all.On this day in 2013, the Webflow co-founders were huddled around our usual desk that we claimed every early morning at the Hacker Dojo (a co-working space) in Mountain View, working like hell into the evenings to get something off the ground.We had quit our jobs about 6 months prior, and totally underestimated how long it would take to build even a beta. I had personally convinced my wife that we’d only have to be income-less for 3 months – the amount of savings we had in the bank – but that time had now doubled, and those savings were long gone.The Kickstarter campaign we had poured all of our savings into producing had fallen through, never even making it live because we hadn’t read the Terms of Service to learn that they didn’t allow SaaS subscriptions to be funded. We had high hopes about getting into YC for the winter batch, but were rejected since we only had a non-functional demo of a product and zero traction.On top of all that, my oldest daughter (3yo then) was diagnosed with a life-threatening condition, requiring expensive surgery that didn’t get much help from our cheap “catastrophic” health insurance plan with an ultra-high deductible. Credit card cash advances became the way we were paying for rent and food.So with all this, we started contingency planning to try to get our old jobs back. As a last ditch effort, we sold two of our cars and pulled out what equity we had in them to buy a little more runway. Then we had to come to terms that we couldn’t actually build a full product in the time we had left, and decided that the best we could do was to create a demo or playground that could hint at what the future product could be – and hope for the best.In March of 2013, we finally finished that demo and put it up live. It’s still there: http://playground.webflow.com/Now came the time to get users. We were targeting mostly designers and non-technical folks –  so we posted it on Digg (heh, remember those days?), Reddit, and several designer-centric forums. But none of those posts got any meaningful traction. We were at a loss.Then, with tempered expectations about how a visual development tool for designers would be received in the hacker community, we posted here to HN. The title was “Show HN: Webflow – design responsive websites visually” [1] and we crossed our fingers really hard at this last-ditch effort.What happened next was nothing short of life-changing. The post took off like wildfire, staying at #1 for the entire day. Incredible words of encouragement were all over the comments. Over 25,000 people signed up for our beta list. VentureBeat wrote a story about us that same day. Tons of people started talking about Webflow on Twitter, Reddit, etc as a result. This led to a ton of word of mouth and even more signups.This amazing traction helped us get into YC several months later, gave us momentum to raise some funding from some angel investors, and most importantly gave us the confidence that we were truly on to something that can be really valuable for the world.Since then, Webflow has grown to millions of users, over a hundred thousand customers, and over 200 team members. I still have to pinch myself when I see that Webflow has somehow become one of the top YC companies of all time. Out of our customers, tens of thousands use Webflow exclusively to make a living – to run an agency, build websites and light applications, create websites for clients, or for their own startups. Tons of YC startups (e.g. lattice.com, hellosign.com, many many more) now use Webflow to run their marketing.I’m 1000% convinced that if that HN post did not take off, we would have gone back to our jobs and that early Webflow demo would have been a mere mention on our resumes somewhere. Thousands of people wouldn’t be empowered to build for the web the way they can now. I can’t imagine what that alternate future would be like, and it hinged seemingly on just one submission to this community.So this is a very belated, but very huge THANK YOU to HN for being kind to a trio of co-founders who wanted to make something valuable for the world, and were at the end of their rope in many ways. You gave us confidence, hope, encouragement, and a lifeline that got us through the lows of building a startup.Thank you, thank you, thank you!!![1] https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5407499

**原文链接**: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25792719

**Hacker News 讨论：**

文章主要讨论了Webflow的成功故事和用户体验。kitcar用户对Webflow的客户服务表示不满，特别是无法轻易联系到客服的问题。Akcium表达了对Webflow成功的羡慕，并鼓励其他产品开发者不要放弃。pembrook赞扬了Webflow在静态站点生成器领域的表现，并询问了Webflow未来五年的愿景。steve_taylor称赞了Webflow的产品质量，Scramblejams询问是否适合程序员使用，czbond分享了关于创业的真实故事，staunch讨论了 traction 对 YC 投资决策的影响，xwdv提醒人们创业的风险，breck分享了与Webflow的早期联系和自己的经历，nomadtwin对Webflow的持续融资和工具改进表示担忧。

