
---
layout: post
title:  "对于人类所有的美好，禁用智能手机"
author: Improvement
categories: [ Hacker News ]
image: https://picsum.photos/seed/1749873518/750/500
tags: [startup]
---
作者: Improvement | 发布日期: 2025-06-14 | 评分: 42 | 评论数: 6

**摘要：**

文章探讨了智能手机对个人和社会的负面影响。作者指出，智能手机已经成为我们生活的延伸，但过度依赖它们导致了孤独、抑郁、焦虑等心理问题，同时也削弱了我们的社交能力和认知功能。文章还分析了智能手机对社会和政治的破坏性影响，包括传播虚假信息、加剧极化和侵蚀对共同机构的信任。作者呼吁通过限制智能手机的使用或完全禁止它们来恢复个人自由和社会健康，并提出了“断开连接”的权利和重新连接的建议。...

**原文链接**: https://jacobin.com/2025/06/ban-smartphones-tech-society/

**Hacker News 讨论：**
[{'author': 'GeekyBear', 'text': 'The problem isn&#x27;t smartphones.<p>The problem came about after platforms with ad-based revenue decided to optimize for eyeballs glued to screens and discovered that serving up extreme and&#x2F;or hateful content was an effective way to hold people&#x27;s attention longer.', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T04:47:38.000Z'}, {'author': 'ergonaught', 'text': 'I do believe that smartphones will eventually be recognized as one of the worst things the species did to itself, though it isn&#x27;t the fault of the phones, &quot;obviously&quot;.', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T04:26:24.000Z'}, {'author': 'tom89999', 'text': 'I switch of my phone every evening after 20:00 hrs. Nobody has to disturb me except my moms house is on fire. My landline number is known around relatives etc.\nI never answered or reacted that late on the same day.\nIts my fucking free time, nothing can be so important i have to give up that personal time.\nUnluckily i have to use my own personal phone for my job. I receive emails and texts when my teamleader is working late. Thats annoying.\nA couple of years ago my company handed me a work cell phone, but those days are long gone.\nWhen i commute to work, early in the morning, i look outside the window of the tram, look at the sun rising or whats going on on the streets.\nThe entire wagon is just staring on senseless Whatsapps, texts or videos.\nI dont get why the people dont wanna be bothered that early in the morning and making them ready for work or just enjoy a beautiful sunrise.\nYou cant make friends with them anymore, they dont look around, dont start chatting with the person next to them.\nZombies they are.\nIf all those people would hold a bottle of beer and sip on it frequently, we would call them alcoholics and addicts.\nAnd those people are addicts, needing treatment. Urgently.\nBut the common reception of phone users is that they are in touch with someone and the social tradegy is hidden behind the manner of use of such devices.\nOne does not see if the user is watching stupid videos or is caught in a bubble.\nBut holding a bottle of beer will bring the people to contempting the blue collar worker after a long working day, talking to real people, earning his wage  and returning to his real existing family that evening.\nWhat i ask myself the entire time is, how are kids raised by parents working for or owning cellphone providers and manufacturers?\nWhat do such people tell their kids how or not to use social media?\nDo they raise them ascetic when it comes to gadgets?\nTell them: Daddy is going to work, selling stuff for stupid people?', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T05:14:23.000Z'}, {'author': 'mindslight', 'text': 'The approach that works for me is to get <i>more</i> devices. I&#x27;m not really attracted to my phone, because it <i>sucks</i> as a computer. I can tap out maybe 10wpm as opposed to 140 at a desktop. One tiny screen. Swipe pinch zoom blah instead of a mouse. I only use the web browser on that if I&#x27;m actually needing to view something while mobile. Most of the apps I have on it are libre communications apps, and a few things like grocery store etc. Nothing I&#x27;m ever wanting to poll, and I don&#x27;t even really pay attention to notifications.<p>Surveillance industry crapps go on a separate device I just leave at home. I don&#x27;t disable notifications or even swipe to dismiss them - just ignore. The whole thing is perma-silent and generally forgtten until I want to actually do something that requires a mobile app.<p>The majority of my usage is on a desktop computer. Surveillance industry websites definitely make themselves harder to use so you waste more time and never quite get your full fix, but you still somewhat do hit a natural satiation limit, much more than you would through a tiny porthole that fits in your pocket.<p>I haven&#x27;t done the sit-on-couch-and-watch-TV thing for a year, but obviously I use a real laptop for that rather than falling into the &quot;tablet&quot; (aka big phone) trap.', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T05:34:02.000Z'}, {'author': 'cyberax', 'text': 'For all that is good about mankind, ban whiny socialists and their propaganda rags.', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T07:19:34.000Z'}, {'author': 'komali2', 'text': '&gt; It’s hard to imagine a socialist order run by device-addicted zombies, increasingly disconnected and semi-literate<p>I agree that smartphones are harming us. I also agree that capitalism has at best served out its purpose and needs to be replaced with another means of organizing society and distributing material and labor.<p>However, the Soviet Union banned blue jeans and rock and roll and a very resentful population thus smuggled these things and associated them with counter culture and revolutionary mindedness, basically the opposite of what a socialist would want - we&#x27;re supposed to be <i>freeing</i> you from the company that wants to wage enslave you and reward you with a drip feed of treats you don&#x27;t really need, not making you want the treats even more!<p>Banning doesn&#x27;t seem to work. I banned myself from reddit and got addicted to twitter, banned myself from Twitter and got myself addicted to Hacker News, then YouTube, then BlueSky, then nextdoor... Clearly there&#x27;s a root issue I should be targeting instead, similar to how all my exercise is for naught if I can&#x27;t get my diet in order. I think these kinds of behaviors are similar to the things that plague a capitalist society - we seem to know that smartphones and doom scrolling are bad for us, but we seem unable to stop. Some of us are trying dumb phones, or apps that limit time on certain apps. The best solutions we can come up with exist within the system we&#x27;re addicted to - we need a company or app developer to save us from ourselves, and by the way the new Light phone is 600$. The incentives will never be aligned - the best (under capitalism) dumb phone manufacturer will be the one that can have the highest sales volume through addicting people to their phones and building in enough obsolescence to require people to get new ones. Or Light phone will just get cannibalized by a trillion dollar company it has no resources to resist at some point.<p>I think one of the key things leftists (using the global definition, not the Americanized version) need to figure out this century to accomplish our goals is how to help people empower themselves to escape the things they know are bad for them, or enjoy these things to a certain point but not be dragged beyond that point by profit-minded capitalist entities.<p>I see efforts on this front in the FOSS&#x2F;fediverse space. Self hosted Instagram that lets you sort new posts by recent and doesn&#x27;t try to psyop you with boobs blood or rage into staying on the app longer than intended. Alternative clients for YouTube that let you aggregate creators from other platforms and block channels you never want to see (did you know this isn&#x27;t possible on YouTube?).Music sharing platforms that give the majority of revenue to the artists.<p>I think these efforts are good and might be the solution. I like Cory Doctorow&#x27;s anarchist-aligned philosophy in &quot;Walkaway&quot; that basically amounts to &quot;build alternative ways to be for people that make them ask why&#x27;d they bother with the capitalist mode at all.&quot;<p>I still think there&#x27;s some more fundamental psychological angle we need to figure out, a human-centric <i>something</i> that doesn&#x27;t need any distribution other than word of mouth that can help people resist the psychofauna capitalist entities use to ensnare people. Maybe I just have utopian thinking or maybe I read Snow Crash too many times have have magical thinking about the power of language and ideas. I certainly would love some magical way to finally solve my addictions and maladaptive behaviors.', 'created_at': '2025-06-14T04:56:16.000Z'}]

